He's really gone.
Popp [thought]: Hadlar...
I hope you know that
in your last moments,
you became one of us.
You were our friend,
and we will remember you.
Avan: Up you go.
I'll say, you
sure have grown a bit.
Haven't you, Popp?
You're almost too
heavy for me to carry.
[chuckling]
Put me down!
Avan: Easy now...
You're not him...
You can't be our Master.
The real Avan would
never have left us
to fend for
ourselves all this time.
You are just an illusion!
For all we know,
you might even be
Zaboera in disguise again.
No, he's not.
That isn't possible.
You're in a Magic
Circle of Light.
No matter the disguise,
nothing evil can
stand within it.
No Dark Magic in
existence will work.
If that's true...
Doesn't it...
Doesn't it mean that...
It's... It's really him.
[excited chirp]
I don't believe it.
Well, it's true.
I hope you can
all forgive me
for causing you
so much concern...
There's much to explain,
but I am neither a ghost,
nor an illusion -
nor an imposter...
And I'm obviously not
a twin, or anything.
It's no trick.
It's really me.
Dai: Master Avan!
How did you do it?
[overjoyed chirps]
Dai: It's you.
Popp: You're back!
That's right.
Howling Inferno!
Take this.
Northern Grand Blade!
Queen Flora -
you look troubled.
What's the matter?
I can sense a new presence...
Up there.
But how?
Tell us.
Popp: Yeah, spill!
Avan: Dai...
Maam...
Popp.
Where have you been?!
Relax. You're getting
my only good cloak wet!
Whatever. I can't help it.
I never thought
I'd see you again.
Your cloak'll dry out.
Just let me hug you, all right?
That's enough for now.
Down you go.
You know, Popp...
I could sense your Magic
Power from a long way off.
It's become truly impressive.
Well, you said it yourself.
I've grown quite a bit.
He sure has.
Avan: And look
at that armor...
Maam. I never expected that you
would take up Martial Arts.
Quite the surprise.
And Dai...
There's no denying it.
You've truly earned the
Hero's title. Well done.
[flattered chuckle]
You've all... changed
so much since we last met.
I wish I'd played
a bigger part...
but to see how
far you've come,
relying on nothing except
your own strength...
I couldn't be more
proud of you...
All of you.
Hyunckel, too.
Leona: Hyunckel...
I know that you've
devoted yourself
to a never-ending
battle, but...
even the greatest warriors
are allowed to express
their feelings sometimes.
I'm not... I'm not hiding
my feelings, Princess.
It's just, after
everything I've done...
Hyunckel [thought]:
I suppose...
this is what people
mean when they say...
They're too ashamed
to show their face.
Young Hyunckel: Bartos
was the strongest knight
in all of the Dark Army...
and he was my father.
[gasp]
And so the malice that
you sense in my blade?
It's my hatred towards
you for murdering him!
Wait a minute! Hyunckel!
[roaring]
The truth is, not
all students of Avan
respect their teacher and
love justice like you three.
Some of us love chaos and have
embraced the darkness instead.
After seeing just how weak...
justice really is!
But...
My name is Hyunckel.
One of the Six Commanders
of the Dark Army;
leader of the Undead Legion!
Hyunckel [thought]:
I might regret my past,
but I still don't
deserve your forgiveness.
Hey... Enjoy it while you can.
This might be our
only chance to see
mister tough-guy Hyunckel
opening up the waterworks.
I didn't think he
even had a soft side.
Popp, c'mon.
Cut it out.
Don't be such a jerk.
Yeah, you're right.
Maybe he just needs a hug.
Leave him be. We all
have our regrets.
Master, Hyunckel was only...
It's all right, Maam.
You don't need
to explain a thing.
Avan [thought]: Hyunckel...
the past is behind us.
All that matters
now is you're here,
and you're giving your
strength to help the others.
You're becoming the man I
always knew you could be...
And that... That alone
brings me great joy.
Hi, Master Avan.
Oh, Princess Leona.
You've joined my
Disciples as well?
Leona: Queen Flora
gave me this Insignia.
You can have it
back if you want.
No, not at all.
If she deemed you worthy of it,
then I trust her judgement.
Thank you, I'm honored.
But could you please
explain something to me?
There's no spell in existence
that can resurrect completely-
so how are you here?
We were told -
you sacrificed yourself
on Dermline Island, right?
So you could rescue
Dai and Popp.
Dai [thought]:
That's what happened.
We both saw it.
[roaring]
[agonized cry]
A spell?! Impossible!
There's no way
you've conserved
enough Magic Power for this.
Actually, this spell
requires very little.
Instead, it turns life
energy into a massive blast.
So let's see you
withstand this, Hadlar!
Wait! You know
what that means -
Stop it! You little...
[roaring]
Popp, Dai - good luck!
You'll have to
take it from here.
[roaring]
No!
[furious roar]
Avan: Megante!
Yeah, that's right.
We watched him put everything
on the line to protect us...
By casting a Megante spell...
But if anyone other than
a Priest uses Megante,
their body is reduced
to nothing but dust
and it should be
impossible to resurrect them.
I don't mean to question
what you're capable of...
I just don't understand
how you did it.
Avan: Well, Leona...
it's actually very simple.
Because I never
really died at all!
What?!
I'm sure it comes as a shock,
but I've been alive
this entire time.
But... But, after the
fight, you were gone...
And now I'm here.
But, how? We both saw it...
And yet here I stand.
But after they told me,
we all mourned you together.
Fooled you all, didn't I?
What... Wait a
minute. Seriously?
Now I'm more confused.
How is that possible?
Honestly, it's
not that complicated.
A long time ago,
Queen Flora left me with
a gift, much like yours.
Here it is - the only
reason I'm still standing.
What is it?
Avan: A very
powerful treasure.
Flora: Meanwhile,
I'd like you to have this.
It's the Amulet of Carl -
an heirloom of
the royal family.
I'm sure its enchantment
will help you someday.
Avan: Back when we were young,
and I set off to face
the Dark Lord Hadlar,
Queen Flora gave it to me.
She hoped it would
offer protection.
Avan: Megante!
Avan: After I cast
the Megante spell,
the charm absorbed
the blast...
and the amulet took most
of the damage in my place.
Avan: So, in the end...
it did exactly what
Flora hoped it would.
It was a close call,
but I managed to survive...
and it was only because
I wear this every day.
But...
Then...
Why did you wait
so long to show up?
We really could've used
your help! I mean...
Do you have any
idea what we've risked -
how much we've all given
up to carry on your fight?
Are you telling us that you
knew this whole time...
and you just did nothing?!
He's right.
How could you let us
all grieve you like that?
I was heartbroken when
I heard you were gone.
Maam: We all fought
so hard for you.
Couldn't you have at
least given us a sign
that you were still out there?
He must've had a good
reason not to tell us.
Right, Master?
It's because...
My friends, I'll explain
everything in due time.
But before I do...
Avan: I want to see all of
you run to the central palace
as fast as you can
- understood?
Let's call it a race.
Huh?!
[confused chirp]
No, not understood.
Are you kidding?
Why do we have to race
at a time like this?!
If you had a good reason,
just answer
the question and...
Let it go, Popp!
The only thing that I have
to say right now is this:
I'm here for the same
reason as all of you,
and that's to defeat
the Dark King.
Until we do that,
I'm afraid these questions
are going to have to wait.
Please, trust me.
I'm no longer your master,
but I promise I'm your ally.
So let us fight together.
And finish this,
once and for all.
Do we have to run?
I really don't have the
stamina to do this right now...
Avan [thought]: That's the
spirit. Thank you, everyone.
Well, look at you.
On your feet already I see.
Killvearn: [devious chuckle]
Yes. One of the many
perks of immortality.
You surprised, Hero?
Killvearn: Hadlar's little
stunt may have stung,
but it will take a lot
more to get rid of me.
The "Dark Lord"
may have used
his final moments
to slow me down...
but now that he's
out of the way,
I won't be stopped again.
Killvearn: No
resurrections this time.
My instincts
are telling me that
I can't afford to
grant you any mercy.
It's simply too risky.
Go right ahead...
if you really think you can.
I don't get it.
Why would Master want us
to race to the
palace without him?
It doesn't make sense.
So? When did he
ever make sense?
He's never been wrong before,
so if he says we should run,
then we get running.
It might seem meaningless...
or even downright stupid...
but there's a method to
his madness every time.
That's just
Master Avan's style.
It always works out,
wait and see.
Killvearn: I wouldn't be
so confident if I were you.
Unlike me,
you're quite mortal.
You obviously sent the others
away to keep them from danger,
but now you'll have
to face me alone.
Perhaps you think that
I won't be a match for you,
but I guarantee...
Your arrogance
will cost you dearly.
Killvearn: I'll admit that
thwarting my Nine of Diamonds
was an impressive feat.
However, I have many more
traps throughout the palace.
The others are bound
to fall into one
long before they reach
the inner sanctum.
And as for you...
no matter how powerful
your magic may be,
I'm not giving you
another chance to use it.
I'll accept your
"invitation", Hero.
Well, Mr. Reaper...
or whatever it
is they call you...
Before you do,
answer me this:
When someone is caught
in one of your traps,
will it activate
automatically?
Because unless I'm mistaken,
snares of this kind
need to be activated
by their creator's
magic power.
And it seems to me...
that your hands are
rather full at the moment.
Killvearn: Y-You...
This was your plan
all along, wasn't it?
By keeping me occupied,
even if your pathetic
Disciples wander into my traps,
I won't be able
to activate them.
And that's why you
sent them on ahead.
Killvearn: Well, well.
Aren't you a clever one.
You're more dangerous
than I thought,
but it makes no difference.
Enough chit-chat.
You're going to the afterlife.
Once I can give the
others my full attention,
I'll make quick work of them.
They're hopeless without
their fearless leader.
Most of my remaining traps
are inside the palace, anyway.
They'll walk right into them.
Oh? Well, thanks for
the tip. Quite useful.
I'll certainly keep that
in mind for down the road.
Killvearn: That's enough!
W-What? No, no...
Why can't you move?
Appreciate the offer,
but I don't need a shave.
I already had one
before I came here,
and your hands seem shaky.
Killvearn: H-How
are you doing this?
I can't move my arm - no,
I can't move half my body!
W-Where did this
feather come from?
I didn't even feel it!
Avan: Your arrogance
will be your demise.
I could sense your malice was
still present after you fell.
I took precautions.
Now, tell me...
How does it feel to be
caught in a trap yourself?
Avan: When I first met Hadlar,
he was a cruel man,
not unlike you...
He delighted in doing
terrible things to people.
But he always did
those things himself.
He was never a coward.
Avan: And in battle,
he always fought fair.
He wouldn't lower
himself to craven tactics.
But you...
You're the lowest
I've ever faced...
Like a snake slithering
around the battlefield.
All you do is
sit back and watch
while your traps
do all the work.
You're worse than cruel,
you're barbaric.
[trembling]
Avan: A true warrior
takes pride...
in honoring...
the basic rules of combat.
At least Hadlar
understood that much.
So with this blow,
I hope you'll feel the anger of
his departed soul, you fiend!
[shrieking]
Remember this, Killvearn.
Although I take no pleasure
in using such methods...
I'm also well versed
in the spell-craft
you're hiding behind.
If you insist on using such
shameful tactics against us,
I'll be forced to
fight back in kind...
And let me be clear;
I will be unforgiving.
Killvearn: So be it.
But you would be
wise to remember this.
Killvearn: I'm going
to finish you off...
like Hadlar never could.
I swear it...
I'm going to choke the life
out of you with my own hands.
Mark my words, Hero.
I was hoping he'd do that.
Now, then...
Here we go.
So King Vearn's
in there, huh?
We're never gonna find him.
I mean, it's enormous.
And it's even more
terrifying up close.
Well, you're not wrong.
Avan: Intimidating, isn't it?
[surprised breaths]
Wh...
Master...
How did you get
up here so fast?
No kidding. We were easily
a few minutes ahead of you.
[laughing]
What do you mean...
You didn't notice?
I was only a few steps
behind you the whole way up.
Hyunckel [thought]:
No... He's lying.
If he were so close to us, I
would've sensed his presence.
He stayed behind... But why?
What could he
be hiding from us?
Excellent.
I used a new skill
I call "Sneaky-Step,
Stealthy-Step, Avan-Step."
It must work even
better than I thought.
That's what you're calling it?
Why not call it...
"Sneaky-Step, Stealthy-Step,
Popp-Step" instead?
Well, I suppose...
if you were the one
who used it, then yes.
You could call it that.
Hyunckel [thought]:
There's something about him
that's different
than I remember.
It's almost as if...
his powers have
totally changed.
Hyunckel [thought]:
That golden glow...
I get it.
His power... that's
what feels off...
This man... He...
Moving on, everyone...
For your next task -
Hyunckel: Hold
it just one second.
I can see the extent
of your power,
and it doesn't sit right.
But, Hyunckel...
What do you mean by
"the extent... of my power"?
I mean that you're weak.
Far too weak.
Narrator: While Hyunckel
stews in his suspicion,
Avan leads the rest
of his Disciples
into King Vearn's
sprawling palace.
Soon they discover
their path is barred
by a gate even
stronger than the one
Dai and Baran
struggled to breach...
Yet Avan insists
on tackling it alone.
Along the way,
the mystery of
his journey since
that fateful day on Dermline
Island will be revealed...
Don't miss it - next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Secret Way
of Purification.